
WHAT SHE WEARS.
BEAUTIFUL BE-FEATHERED OPERA MATINEE HATS - ONLY BOX OCCUPANTS MAY DISPLAY THEIR HATS DURING PERFORMANCE - NATTIER MODEL COMMENDED COSTUMES FOR CALLING AN ESPECIALLY PRETTY SHORT SKIRT MODEL — BRONZE AND OLIVE GREENS POPULAR- UNDEFINED PLAIDSFEATHER ARRANGEMENTS
An opera matinee is sure at all times to bring out the street fashions in strong force. Particularly true is it at the November opening, and this year it has proved a brilliant example. The beplumed hats assisted with telling effects. It is one thing to pass on the street these showy long plumes in white, in blue, in pink and yellows, and quite another to sit from two to three hours gazing at them from time to time. Feathers in tips seem to have almost disappeared. In half lengths they are now disposed at most audacious angles, and bunched up into threes or fives. They plunge out from the left side of velvet hats with upturned brims in a rearward direction that is most original. They rise from uptilted and very much trimmed backs of hats in stunning bravado. They cross the crowns of smart hats from one side almost to the other, and over, and sweep quite far forward upon others. As for the under brim feather linings, as well as the tosssed up crown groupings turning this way and that, they all bespeak a skill for posing, and a control over the feather that never has been as complete as it is this season. The pity of it all was to see these exquisite perishable creations taken off and held on the laps. The box contingent is in that respect to be envied for keeping the hat on the head.
BOX HAT IN PINK
The charming Nattier styles, and the very low crowned Watteaux should become a fixed opera and theatre hat, so easy are they to take off and put on, and of the least trouble to keep on one's lap, for plumes and feather trimmings rightfully belong to those in seats where hats may be worn on the head throughout the performance. Beautiful were many of the box hats. For instance, one in pink velvet, with a side tilt that seemed every moment to be losing its balance, had its brim lined with pink tinsel cloth covered with pink tulle. Five half length pink plumes toppled over its crown and hid it completely. The brim in the rear of the crown was also invisible, but in front there was a glimpse of it bent down upon the hair and on the right side. The shape of the head as well as the dressing of the hair counts for everything in hat styles of this character. Another irresistible fascinator was in white felt, and had its crown, which was rather high and covered with a fold drapery of straw-colored chiffon velvet further ornamented on the extreme edge in the back with a long and compact bunch of silvery white aigrettes spreading backward with a dash. The right side edge of the brim of this hat almost touched the beauty's eyebrow, while on the left, the uptilt showed off the whole head. At the same marvellous angle was posed a white silver cloth creation, showing its sheen only upon the brim. The crown was extremely large, having a wrinkled drapery of pale blue velvet very full and gracefully disposed. In the most picturesque manner were France roses in their dainty pinkness, grouped into a garland on the left, a few roses swinging below the brim line on that side which was abridged for that particular effect evidently. For pure coquetry no hat has ever excelled it.
NEW COIFFURE
One coiffure there was that stood out from all the rest on a recent night performance. It consisted of two large scarlet and white velvet tiger lilies grouped with two or three dull green velvet leaves, and a Paradise plume of silvery whiteness springing from the midst. This coiffure was posed slightly out of the middle line on the back of the head (the hair being dressed high), but leaning a trifle toward the left side. A copy it is said to be of a coiffure worn at the popular French play called La Belle Madame Héber. It marks a new departure, taking the place of a theatre hat.
There seems to be no chance, however, this season to oust the famous large picture hats, or the smaller styles just described. What may happen in the autumn of 1906 remains to be seen.
SMART THINGS HIGH-PRICED
If ever there was a time when so-called poor relations might joyfully accept presents of things wearable, it is undoubtedly this year. The advance in prices for really smart hats, costumes, evening wraps, sets of furs, or of ostrich and marabout puts the small-income sisters, aunts and cousins of the rich in quite a trying situation. No small economies can overcome the rise to the fabulous sums that are asked at the smart places.
HALF TAILORED STREET COSTUMES
 Street costumes for forenoon wear are worn short, and will be. But there are cloth costumes only half-tailored, which are quite elaborate, and expensively trimmed, the skirts of which are long. These are, of course, specially intended to pay visits in, or to wear upon any ceremonious occasion. Ladies' or chiffon cloths in single colors are for these, the best style. The length of the skirt indicates that the wearer, if she walks, must take it up. Hansom and cab-hire has become so general nowadays that few will be inclined to go through the weariness of carrying their skirts in the grasp of the hand. Many dressy cloths and velveteens in short-skirted costumes mark the independence of those who are to make their calls afoot in the season.
A SHORT SKIRT MODEL
When a choice has to be made among the short-skirted tailor-mades the many models shown are so charming that it becomes a difficult matter to order. There are complex designs that appear quite simple in the sober colors, but are very ornate in cloths of lighter shades. A long tab design, cut in one piece with the yoke or with the Princess girdle top, is extremely graceful, as full plaits are set in to suit the figure or lessened as the demand arises. Braids to match the cloth or glossy black silk ones in some way or another enter into the bottom skirt trimming. It is kept in most cases quite low on the bottom, and not at all conspicuous, the main object being not to detract from the length of skirt line. Passementerie motives are introduced with soutaches, while wider braids produce of themselves sufficient effect.
BODICE TREATMENT
The close-fitting bodices receive color bits upon their revers, mostly very small ones, or have flat shapes in color laid on about the neck, lower down upon the belt, and both in front and in the back, as well as upon the bottom of the sleeves. Buckle ornaments are put in pairs upon the belts or as an ornament on the top of princess girdles both back and front. This finish is a very smart one. All the bodices keep up either Eton or bolèro suggestions. A few exceptions adopt the basque line or the postilion, but these are not found among the younger slim figures. Shoulders are, or should be, kept on broad lines; there is no style without that feature in tailor-mades. Some sleeves have less fulness than others at the top. Both long and elbow sleeve lengths are worn.
[page break]
Among some extremely late coming tailor models long sleeves prevail, Lace chemisettes give rise to openings at the neck that are exceedingly becoming, and stands for no end of smartness in these costumes.
BRONZE AND OLIVE GREENS
As the season advances bronze and olive greens increase in color distinction among the cloths and velvets. An example in olive green in the finest of cloth, had for trimming, an inch and a half black brocade galoon. It was a two-piece suit, a closed Eton and skirt. This galoon from shoulders to hem in front gave long lines in even rows, the cloth between being cut into a flat flap, which raised itself sufficiently to keep the width of the galoon intact In the back these long lines were pre-served, giving a tapering effect to the waist which was belted in with cloth to match, but also had shaped oblong applications of light grayish-blue velvet, over which were motives of black silk passementerie. A turn-over collar, now the accepted finish of all the best tailor-mades, and in this instance it was not wanting. It was also of blue velvet, over-applied with black passementerie. The bottom of the sleeves repeated the same ornamentation, while upon the fronts of the Eton, on the bust line, were two black pieces similarly treated. Charming indeed was this trimming effect, while the galoon in its glossy flatness seemed to be woven into the cloth, so admirably was it sewed and pressed.
TOBACCO-BROWN COSTUME
Of the utmost attractiveness was a tobacco-brown cloth costume, short skirted, as well, with a low crutch design separating the plaits, and in the same brown shade as the cloth. On one edge of this brown silk Hercules braid was a narrow raised brown satin cord gimp, which, when sewed on, gave a special accent to the long crutch lines that ran up from the bottom, and were lost in their diminutive ending. A panel front had the cloth cut into graded crescent lengths from top to bottom, a darker shade of brown silk showing underneath. Crescent was finished by the narrowest cord inlet and stitched to flatness.
The same trimming displayed itself upon the sides of the sleeves from shoulder to cuff, and gave a yoke line back and front, in three graded rows beautifully proportioned in their size. A touch of gold galoon brightened up the turn-over brown velvet collar, as it did the straight cuff pieces; while a glimpse of both velvet and gold suggested an inner vest line in perfect harmony. All the fastenings in front were quite invisible.
INDEFINITE PLAIDS
Those almost undefined plaid cloths in greens or bronze with reddish and dark bluish shad-braids of silken blackness are twisted into a telling design upon each side of this straight band. A Norfolk style of short belted-in coat, with a red cloth collar and cuffs, the black braid again used as trimming and a few gilt buttons laid upon the belt and the fronts produce a markedly good and out-of- the-common style.